[26.1] Resource Metadata Docs (#353)
neoforged/Documentation: docs/resources/metadata.md

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Resource Metadata

`.mcmeta` file extensions can hold JSON metadata for any asset or data object within the game. These are most commonly used to define information for a pack and how textures are applied; however, they can be used on any file by adding a `.mcmeta` to the end of the filename (e.g., `apple.png` has a resource metadata `apple.png.mcmeta`).

:::note

> While the JSON objects within data packs can have resource metadata, it goes unused since the metadata could be within the JSON file itself.
> 
> :::

Reviewer: Formatting (throughout the whole article): No blank spaces around info blocks.
```suggestion
:::note
While the JSON objects within data packs can have resource metadata, it goes unused since the metadata could be within the JSON file itself.
:::
```

| `overlays` / `neoforge:overlays` | `OverlayMetadataSection` / `GeneratingOverlayMetadataSection` | `pack.mcmeta`           | Sub-packs applied over the main pack for the given conditions |
| `language`                       | `LanguageMetadataSection`                                     | `pack.mcmeta`           | Additional languages, only for resource packs                 |
| `animation`                      | `AnimationMetadataSection`                                    | `.png.mcmeta` (Texture) | [Animated atlas textures][animation]                          |
| `gui`                            | `GuiMetadataSection`                                          | `.png.mcmeta` (Texture) | [GUI sprite textures][texture]                                |
| `texture`                        | `TextureMetadataSection`                                      | `.png.mcmeta` (Texture) | [Textures][texture]                                           |
| `villager`                       | `VillagerMetadataSection`                                     | `.png.mcmeta` (Texture) | Villager hat visibility                                       |

:::note

> The `PackMetadataSection` is not required for the main mod `pack.mcmeta` as NeoForge generates it synthetically. However, it is required for any bundled packs added through the `AddPackFindersEvent` mod bus event.

Reviewer: Link to events.

        Executor executor = Util.backgroundExecutor().forName("serializeMetadata");
        return CompletableFuture.allOf(
            this.metadata.entrySet().stream().map(entry -> CompletableFuture.runAsync(() -> {
                    JsonObject result = new JsonObject();
                    entry.getValue().sections().forEach((type, data) -> result.add(type, data.get()));
                    return result;
                }, executor).thenComposeAsync(json -> DataProvider.saveStable(cache, json, entry.getKey()), executor)
            ).toArray(CompletableFuture[]::new)
        );
    }

    @Override
    public final String getName() {
        return "Resource Metadata";
    }

    public record ResourceMetadata(Map<String, Supplier<JsonElement>> sections) {

        public ResourceMetadata() {
            this(new HashMap<>());
        }

        public <T> ResourceMetadata add(MetadataSectionType<T> type, T value) {
            this.sections.put(type.name(), () -> type.codec().encodeStart(JsonOps.INSTANCE, value).getOrThrow(IllegalArgumentException::new).getAsJsonObject());
            return this;
        }
    }
}
```

> Which can then be added to the gather data event:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Which can then be added to the `GatherDataEvent`:
```
